[TW-1306] Doc fix for truncating leading zeros from data files (#5026)
postmanlabs/postman-docs: src/pages/docs/collections/running-collections/working-with-data-files.md

---

> title: "Run collection using imported data"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Run a collection using imported data"
```

    url: "https://www.postman.com/case-studies/reputation/"
---

> Postman allows you to import a CSV or JSON file, and use the values from the data file in Collection Runner. For more information about collection runs, see [Using the Collection Runner](/docs/collections/running-collections/intro-to-collection-runs/).

Reviewer: We've been trending toward "enables you to" rather than "allows you to". Alternately, we frequently use "you can".

> The CSV file should be formatted so that the first row contains the variable names that you want to use inside the requests. After that, every row will be used as a data row. The line endings of the CSV file must be in the UNIX format. Each row should have the same number of columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Format the CSV file so that the first row contains the variable names you want to use inside the requests. After that, every row will be used as a data row. The line endings of the CSV file must be in the UNIX format. Each row should have the same number of columns.
```

<img alt="CSV format" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/ramen-csv-screenshot.jpg" width="300px"/>

> Note the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For CSV files, note the following:
```

> * If your CSV file contains numbers with preceding zeroes (for example, `000000345`) or phone numbers (for example, `+12125556709`), you will need to adjust the data type in **Preview**. Learn how in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If your CSV file contains numbers with preceding zeroes (for example, `000000345`) or phone numbers (for example, `+12125556709`), you'll need to adjust the data type in **Preview**. Learn how in the next section.
```

* If the numbers in your data file are larger than 15 digits, you'll need to format them as text in your spreadsheet program, so they're not truncated during import.

> The JSON file should be formatted as an array of key-value pairs. The keys will be the name of the variable with the values the data that is used within the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON files should be formatted as an array of key-value pairs. Each key is the name of a variable, and the value is the data to use within the request.
```

## Run a collection with data files containing preceding zeroes and country codes

Suppose you have a collection with a simple request that accepts a serial and contact number as query parameters and a simple test to validate if the variable value is `true`.

Suppose the serial numbers in your data file contain preceding zeroes and the contact numbers have a country prefix with the `+` symbol.

### Create a collection

1. From the **Collections** menu, select **+** to add a new collection. Then, name the collection **CSV Data Types**.
1. Add a `GET` request with the following address. Name it **Query Serial**.

   ```bash
   https://www.xcorp.io?serial={{serial}}&contact_no={{contact_no}}
   ```

   The query parameters get populated with `serial` and `contact_no` keys and variable values.
1. Add a test script to test the variable values:

   ```bash
   const variableValue = pm.variables.get('value');

   if(variableValue === true){
     console.log('Value is true')
   }
   else if(variableValue === false){
     console.log('Value is false')
   }
   else{
     console.log('Value is neither true or false')
   }
   ```

>    See the [Postman JavaScript reference](/docs/writing-scripts/script-references/postman-sandbox-api-reference/) for more on what you can do with iteration data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   See the [Postman JavaScript reference](/docs/writing-scripts/script-references/postman-sandbox-api-reference/#using-data-variables-in-scripts) for more on what you can do with iteration data.
```

    url: "https://www.postman.com/case-studies/reputation/"
---

Postman allows you to import a CSV or JSON file, and use the values from the data file in Collection Runner. For more information about collection runs, see [Using the Collection Runner](/docs/collections/running-collections/intro-to-collection-runs/).

> ## Format data file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Format a data file
```

Reviewer 2: Since we're just explaining the format here, rather than explaining _how_ they can format it, perhaps "Data file format" or "Expected data file format" would be a better title?

The JSON file should be formatted as an array of key-value pairs. The keys will be the name of the variable with the values the data that is used within the request.

<img alt="JSON format" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/ramen-json-screenshot.jpg" width="300px"/>

## Run a collection with data files

Suppose you have a collection with a simple request that accepts a serial and contact number as query parameters and a simple test to validate if the variable value is `true`.

Suppose the serial numbers in your data file contain preceding zeroes and the contact numbers have a country prefix with the `+` symbol.

In this example, you will create a collection, write a test for variable values, and import a CSV file into the Collection Runner. You will preview the file, make any adjustments to the data types, and run the collection. Then, you will inspect your log to ensure your data was parsed correctly.

1. From the **Collections** menu, select **+** to add a new collection. Then, name the collection **CSV Data Types**.
1. Add a `GET` request with the following address. Name it **Query Serial**.

   ```bash

>    https://www.xcorp.io?serial={{serial}}&contact_no={{contact_no}}

Reviewer: We try to use only postman domains or `example.com` when presenting URLs, unless necessary for the purposes of a tutorial. Since this is more of a tutorial, using xcorp.io might by okay, but check with Jon.

Reviewer 3: If we change this to postman-echo.com will this example still work or make sense?

   ```

   The query parameters get populated with `serial` and `contact_no` keys and variable values.
1. Add a test script to test the variable values:

   ```bash
   const variableValue = pm.variables.get('value');

   if(variableValue === true){
     console.log('Value is true')
   }
   else if(variableValue === false){
     console.log('Value is false')
   }
   else{
     console.log('Value is neither true or false')
   }
   ```

   See the [Postman JavaScript reference](/docs/writing-scripts/script-references/postman-sandbox-api-reference/) for more on what you can do with iteration data.

1. Create a test CSV file as shown below. Name it `test.csv`.

>    <img alt="Test CSV file" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/test-csv-file-10.17.jpg" width="600px"/>

Reviewer: Can you replace this screenshot with a code block so users can copy the test code easily?

1. Return to the collection overview and select <img alt="Runner icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-runner-v9.jpg#icon" width="16px">__Run__.
1. Select your data file using the __Select File__ button.

    <img alt="Data file select" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/select-data-file-v10.17.jpg" width="400px"/>

1. After you select your data file, select **Preview** to inspect the data in the file before you start the run.

    ![Data file preview](https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/csv-data-picker-before-v10.17.jpg)

    Observe that the preceding zeroes in the serial number and the prefix in the contact number have been removed. Change the data type for those numbers to **String** to preserve the original numbers.

    ![Data file update](https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/csv-data-picker-after-v10.17.jpg)

> 1. Select __Run CSV Data Types__ to begin the run with the values from the file. The Collection Runner runs the collection requests for each iteration in the data file. The output indicates the results for any tests you defined in your collection requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select __Run CSV Data Types__ to begin the run with the values from the file. The Collection Runner runs the collection requests for each iteration (row) in the data file. The output indicates the results for any tests you defined in your collection requests.
```

> 1. Inspect the console log and observe that both the numbers and the variable validation tested correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Inspect the console log by selecting **Console** in the footer, and observe that both the values and the variable validation are correct.
```

   ![Console log](https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/csv-console-log-v10.17.jpg)

## Errors when reading data files

> You may encounter errors when Postman attempts to read your data file during a collection run. If this happens, check to ensure your file is properly formatted.

Reviewer: Link "properly formatted" to the "Format a data file" heading

   0003,true,Vicky,+12125556709
   ```

1. Return to the collection overview and select <img alt="Runner icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-runner-v9.jpg#icon" width="16px">__Run__.
1. Select your data file using the __Select File__ button.

    <img alt="Data file select" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/select-data-file-v10.17.jpg" width="400px"/>

1. After you select your data file, select **Preview** to inspect the data in the file before you start the run.

    ![Data file preview](https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/csv-data-picker-before-v10.17.jpg)

    Observe that the preceding zeroes in the serial number and the prefix in the contact number have been removed. Change the data type for those numbers to **String** to preserve the original numbers.

    ![Data file update](https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/csv-data-picker-after-v10.17.jpg)

1. Select __Run CSV Data Types__ to begin the run with the values from the file. The Collection Runner runs the collection requests for each iteration (row) in the data file. The output indicates the results for any tests you defined in your collection requests.

> 1. Inspect the console log by selecting **Console** in the footer, and observe that both the values and the variable validation are correct.

Reviewer: @postfrzero We call it the footer in the Learning Center: https://learning.postman.com/docs/getting-started/basics/navigating-postman/#footer

    <img alt="Data file select" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/select-data-file-v10.17.jpg" width="400px"/>

1. After you select your data file, select **Preview** to inspect the data in the file before you start the run.

    ![Data file preview](https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/csv-data-picker-before-v10.17.jpg)

    Observe that the preceding zeroes in the serial number and the prefix in the contact number have been removed. Change the data type for those numbers to **String** to preserve the original values.

    ![Data file update](https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/csv-data-picker-after-v10.17.jpg)

1. Select __Run CSV Data Types__ to begin the run with the values from the file. The Collection Runner runs the collection requests for each iteration (row) in the data file. The output indicates the results for any tests you defined in your collection requests.

1. Inspect the console log by selecting **Console** in the footer, and observe that both the values and the variable validation are correct.

   ![Console log](https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/csv-console-log-v10.17.jpg)

## Errors when reading data files

> You may encounter errors when Postman attempts to read your data file during a collection run. If this happens, check to ensure your file is properly formatted. For guidance, see [Format data file](#format-data-file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may encounter errors when Postman attempts to read your data file during a collection run. If this happens, check to ensure your file is properly formatted. For guidance, see [Format data file](#data-file-format).
```
